To all the seekers of truth, My salutations to you all!
In India the seeking of truth has been going on since time imemmorial.
This we can know from our scriptures.
And we have found the truth through various resources.
Our country is spiritualistic in a special sense.
The reason for that is that in our country many things are accessible to us.
We don't know, how much prosperous is our country
and how much holy it is.
And the people here are how much simple and clean.
We used to call foreigners 'malechch'
because we noticed that those who came here
their all desires go towards 'malla'(impure desires).
In our time, now I have grown old
it was noticed that how much shallow these foreigners are?
That overall, how much shallow their vision is?
That how much shallow were their desires?
By and by, this western culture influenced our country men tremendously.
The reason for that was for three hundred years
these people ruled over our heads
and gradually, we started understanding
that they are very great who have come into our country
and are ruling over us.
Actually, they got their work done by befooling us.
And secondly, because of our rituals
and because of many other strange rituals and evils in our society
we became cultureless.
our culture started dying, specially in North India.
I could never think of having so many disciples in front of Me.
Its reason might be that you must have been a great seeker in your past life
and you might have done a great deal of meditation
that today, you suddenly were eager to know the truth.
Even though every type of person in charge of religion
and in the same way false people
had spread so much of false information in the country
and so many people had followed them
but today such a time has come
that people think of knowing the truth only.
And to know what is the definition of truth?
If I tell you what is truth, you should not believe Me
just because I am saying it.
But you should verify it.
The fact is that you are
not this body, intellect, mind, ego and bad conditionings etc.
but you yourself are the pure spirit.
What is Atma?
'Atma' is the reflection of God Almighty.
You are that, you have to become that
and whatever else is there is all useless.
Because till you do not recognize yourself
till then, you cannot know the reality of anything.
Mohammad saheb has said
‘If you have not recognised yourself, then you cannot recognise God’.
So one should first recognize oneself.
Means that 'Recognition' is a special state.
Today, you are in human state
and beyond human state, there must be surely some other state.
Otherwise, the nuisance that we are witnessing in the world now a days
and all the type of destructive, corrupt set-ups that we are witnessing
there must be some such solution
that will lead to man's salvation.
All sages and saints talked about their salvation
and all the great incarnations also talked about them.
Then, when and how, will that salvation take place?
It is not that I talked about this Sahaj system.
It is since time immemorial that it is called 'Sahaj'.
What we have to achieve is 'Sahaj'.
But in the ancient times, there were such people who misguided the people.
Read this book, you will get it
take bath in Gangaji, and you will get it
or do some other nuisance and it will happen.
They influenced people with such a variety of devices..........
completely covered them, and filled their minds.
Now there is a small thing like ‘Satya-Narayan puja’.
People do not use their brains that
when Narayan is truth itself, why there is the need to add ‘Satya’ (truth)?
All these blind practices kept on happening here.
It happened so not only in Hindu Dharma
It was more than this among Chritians also
and more than that among Muslims.
They stuck themselves in the traditional beliefs
that will never help them to get their salvation, never, never.
But what has been said is that
it is inside you only and search that, attain that.
Everybody forgets that.
Firstly, the feminine conduct
that we will not take this thing, we will not take that thing
will shave off their heads and will not put any cloth on their body
God will not be attained.
One should think of an ordinary and simple thing
that God is your father.
Will any father want that his son should die of hunger?
And the one who is father of father
one who is father of all fathers
from whom we get nature of the father, we achieve fatherhood.
will God want that you shave off your heads and die of hunger?
But man doesn't think of Dharma
that what is the use of Dharma we are following?
What did we get out of that?
I know that all those who are followers of Dharma
those who go in for most difficullt penance
they are so ill tempered that it is difficult to approach them.
And even if you go, take some wood with you
because they get angry in no time.
Recently, I have written the reason for it.
What is the scientific reason for it?
The scientific reason for this is that our genes inside us have a database.
It has got three things.
One is Carbohydrates, one is Nitrogen and one is Phosphorus.
When asceticism awakens into us
then, water within us gets lost because it burns.
The water in the parts of the cells is also lost.
If the phosphorus is removed from water, then it flares up.
That is why people flare up.
This type of asceticism is too much against peace.
Because the physical activity is like that.
So, you must have seen, there was a saint Durvasa who used to curse.
He knew only to curse. I have not heard that he  gave salvation to anyone.
It is not spirituality.
The light of the spirit doesn't work in one direction. It is all around us.
And such a person is calm in his peace and glory.
To get into this state
give up this, give up that, there is no need to give up anything.
Whatever exists in this world is in its own place.
The moment you know your spirit
when it will happen with your kundalini awakening
then you will see, you are  related to everyone.
And such poetry will come to your mind
such things will come to your mind
such subtle, which you had never thought of.
you have never seen
you must have never bothered, must have never come to your mind.
To get into this state, earlier people used to try various methods
would give regard to gurus and try a lot, but it didn't work.
It is absolutely correct, that the awakening of Kundalini is very difficult.
And one thing
Somebody asked Shree Ram Das Swami, Who was guru of Shivaji
how much time does Kundalini awakening take?
His reply was, 'TATCHAN', at that very moment!
But there must be a receiver as well as a giver.
I can see the people, who want to receive it, sitting in front of Me
And the time is like that.
During this time, the humans struggle so much.
This period of the the horrible activities of Kaliyuga
is in fact horrible time of people.
keeping enmity with each other, troubling each other, opressing each other
that may be in the household or outside
may be in politics or in any other field
it will be so.
And many people do not even realise that they are doing something wrong
opressing someone or beating someone.
And this is happening in every religion.
There is no such religion where there is no beating , no problem.
And the people are nor not ready to accept that
their religion is not superior to all the religions
is not a special religion.
If your religion is such a good religion, then why are you dying?
Why is there such a situation?
why are you in trouble?
Our religion is the highest of all the religions.
Had you taken birth in another religion
you would have talked the same thing about that dharma.
That means , fighting for the sake of dharma
is an insult to God, very great insult.
That was a time and based on the requirements of those times
people have spoken those things.
just by interchanging, manipulating and getting other things to the forefront
and to fight in the name of God, there is no greater sin than this.
To kill others in the name of God
to beat others in the name of God
The God who  is forgiving, merciful, ocean of kindness
doing such heinous acts in HIS name
insult of any dharma.
What for are they fighting?
somebody fighting for land
Such people who believe in formless are fighting for land
If you believe in formless, why are are fighting for land? Give it up.
But by saying this nothing is going to happen.
Those who said so was ineffective. Did anyone listen to that?
Nobody agreed to.
It remained as a mere speech, as a mere talk, as a mere lecture.
It had no impact.
The reason is that man is lying in the darkness, of  ignorance.
Kabir said ,"How shall I make it understand that the whole world is blind."
This was the problem, in this Delhi.
I used to think that it is useless to break one's head here.
And in that Delhi only
in my present state I see that.
Do not know, in which words shall I express My joy.
When I would talk about Kundalini, they would say
"Do you see the Horoscope? I will get My Horoscope."
How it will happen here? Don't know.
How will it accomplish?
But later, I found that
that here there must have been some great saints of previous births, some seekers.
They must be some great religious people, who have come to Delhi
and now they desire to get their spirit.
The desire they had in their previous births, has awakened today.
Otherwise, I would not have understood.
I got married in Delhi and I would think, "Oh God! what a city it is?"
Here the people
except dresses, Jewellery, money and politics would not talk about anything .
And nobody talks, nobody asks you anything.
And in that very Delhi, You have come to get your self realization.
This is the great fortune of this country.
It is its good luck.
Because India is a very great country.
It is a YOG BHUMI.
But we don't know anything about this country.
When we don't know anything about this country, how can we love it?
How can we be vigilant about it?
I am so surprised, that a place like London, where I used to live
there, a city called England, is only this much.
In that one should say
not as much as India
very few people
but everyone knows the minutest details
agrees to everything
and very gracefully.
As such there is nothing so great, is a fact.
I asked someone, "Where did you purchase this glass bowl?"
Immediately he said,"It is available there at that place in North
and there is a factory where it is manufactured."
I was so surprised.
There neighbours do not talk among themselves.
And everybody knows that this country knows everything
he may be educated or uneducated or anything.
There was a lady in a village, we went to her home.
She didn't know, where is Russia situated?
But about London, although She lived in a village
about the whole country, you know how small it is
she knew each and everything.
But in our country, we have become westernised, although we live in India.
or what happened don't know. Nobody knows anything about anyone
talking ill about neighbours.
I am talking about the past, not about the present.
And ask them anything, they say, "We don't know."
very angrily!
Where does this and this person live?
Hey! is he a clerk?
I don't know, but this is the address. Oh! it is the residential area of clerks.
So, who are you? I am head clerk. I said o.k.
In this way ,there is so much of pride, Oh My God!
And wherever I looked at, even the smallest issues
everybody had a great pride that i am so and so.
The same is the case with old Delhi.
The same is the case with New Delhi.
"And what they were proud of, I don't know."
But there was in a way, such an environment
which is called 'Sabhrant'. 'illuson', 'Sabhrant'
Everyone was in an illusion. ‘I am this, I am that, I am like that’.
If you go to Old Delhi
and if you ask, 'Where is that shop?'
Why 'Saheb', What is wrong with our shop? Sit here.
If you talk like this, who will sit in your shop?
So much of struggle, so much mutual hatered  and so much mutual evil.
Same Delhi wants to be well organized, to love each other.
That integration should be achieved, which is the gift of God.
You only tell Me, how must I be feeling?
I have seen a lot of this world.
I salute these people of Dehli, a thousand times.
Now you understand your responsibilities as well.
You live in such a city
because of which, our India's fame is known througout the world.
Whatever happens in Delhi is known all over the world.
What is happening here?
The people of this city say
if one person dies anywhere in Delhi, it will be known in the whole world
and if twenty five peolpe die in any other country, doesn't matter.
So, that means you are very important
and your importance is that you are the representatives of this country.
You are the representatives of this Yog Bhumi, this India.
Today, you have come for your self realization.
Or, many have got it also.
But, you must understand
that those who are self realized, they have got their special position.
And I agree a special position of the people of Delhi.
You are sitting in the capital
and in this capital, those who will be self realized souls
those who will achieve their spirit
they will have a special glamorous power
NOT CLEAR
and that glamorous power is 'love' and 'truth'.
'Truth' and 'Love' both are same.
When you will know the truth, you will yourself become peaceful.
When you know the truth
what is there to get disturbed?
So, do you know what is 'truth'?
But 'Truth' and 'love' both are just the same.
He who knows the 'truth',  knows it only by 'love'.
For example, you love somebody
you know everything about him.
You know, his likes and dislikes
what should we say to him and what we should not say to him
what does he eat, what does he drink, you know everything.
what does he hint at when he says something
everything you know., if you love him
and you are devoted to him.
And when you will know 'truth' by 'love', then only it is 'truth'.
And if you want to take away 'love', 'truth ' will also be no more there.
There can't be, truth'.
Because the radiance of the 'crest of truth' depends only on the 'oil of love'.
Love doesn't mean, i love my daughter, i love my son i love my brother
i love everyone.
This is not 'love'.
For this, there is a word in Sanskrit,'NIRVAJY', 'NIRLRP', means 'detatched'.
And you will say
'Mother, if love becomes selfless, many things will drop off'.
It is not so.
Look at a tree!
Its flow of love, its sap goes to the whole tree.
It goes everywhere.
It goes to its root, to its branches, to its leaves
goes to its fruits but does not stop.
Either it merges into the eather or returns back to earth.
It doesn't stop anywhere.
If it stops, suppose it likes a fruit or a flower very much
the tree will die and that fruit and flower everything will die.
So, whatever you have to give anyone, should be given.
Whatever sap you have to give to your home, household, society
in your country and in the whole world, whosoever you have to give, give.
But don't get glued to it.
Getting glued to that, in a way should be said
what is called in English, 'obsession', clinged.
Now whatever it may be, that weakens  the power of love.
It won't multiply.
It is said ‘ Udaara charitanaam vasudhaiva kutumbakam’,
meaning that the mother earth
the entire creation the entire mother land, is his family.
This is the power of 'love'.
And if you understand this 'power of love'
then , you will be surprised that
it happens when we know our spirit .
I have seen that when people come to Sahajyoga
they first of all find out their own shortcomings.
They come and say,'Mother, I am a great fool. I  have done such mistakes'.
I don't want your confessions, you write down.
‘Then I became like this, I did that, I cheated him, I forced him’
all this they tell Me.
Earlier i could not see
but now it seems that my spirit is like a mirror in front of me.
And i can understand my mistakes
and i think why was i so bad?
Then I told him, Whatever has happened, is over now.
Now the past doesn't exist. It is over. Give it up.
Now you be in the present.
That has all got cleansed.
And just as a lotus comes out of dirty water, fragrant
filling the whole environment with fragrance
now you have become like that, forget it.
Because, whatever is the past, forget that.
But he forgets.
Later, when he progresses, he forgets.
I was in Russia and there was a coup.
There was a coup and I asked Sahajyogis
Hey! Are you not nervous? there has been a coup in your country.
God knows who will take over here and what will happen?
They said,"Mother we are sitting in the kingdom of God!
Why should we be afraid of?"
They said very clearly
"we are sitting in the kingdom of God."
It is a state.
It doesn't happen by talking nonsense.
People will talk great things, ‘will do this,  will do that’, not like that.
The greatest quality a man develops when he looks at himself fearlessly.
He is not afraid of anything.
He doesn't think, 'How shall i think who am i?'
Because he has detatched from himself.
The old self is gone and the new one has emerged.
And this new life, which has emerged in the forefront
is extremely beautiful and glorious.
Has self respect.
Is self-respecting. It is not that he becomes master of all, not that.
There is SWABHIMAAN (self respect) in that.
And in that  SWABHIMAAN, that which is SWA (self) is ATMA (spirit).
To know this system of 'SWA' is Sahajyoga.
He who knows this system of 'SWA' becomes independent.
The system of 'SWA' means to know the system of one's own 'Spirit'
Till now, we were glued to our intelligence or our rituals.
Now our Spirit has awakened within us
and in that awakening we see ourselves clearly.
First, we see ourselves  then we look at our society.
Now we have many people from several religions.
Muslims, Hindus, Christians, Buddhists, and followers of Mahavir.
People of all types have joined Sahajyoga.
And first of all, I noticed that they told Me about their societies.
For example, when a Jaini comes
he says, "Mother please set right the brain of Jainis".
If a sikh comes he says,"Mother, please set right the brains of Sikhs".
If some Christian comes, he says, "Mother when will you set right Christians"?
I have seen this in everyone
that immediately, they distance themselves from their own self to their societies.
look at the people of their household, their society
then at the country and then, to the whole world.
Then they start looking to all the global problems.
They get confused," See Mother, this is the problem.
Now this thing is happening there. You will have to do something".
I told them why are you bothering me of the problems of the whole world?
‘Only You can do this, You have to solve it.
This man is not right, fix him’.
In this way, they have got confused.
They get involved in issues which concern the whole world.
Just tell! An ordinary person, a farmer
if he talks only about his farming, one can understand
But also he started looking around and said
"These people killed Rabin (Israeli Prime Minister). Why did they kill him?"
Mother, you do something for their peace.
Please, fix their peace.
I was surprised and asked,"where did you read about it?"
Was it in the newspaper?
"They killed a messenger of peace", he said, With tears in his eyes.
He had never seen him, nor known him.
He must have read in a newspaper.
How he identifies himself with the whole world?
The Spirit of the world is ‘vishwatma’ (world spirit) and he becomes one with it.
And the spirit becomes despaired, he can feel it inside him.
He does not bother about small issues and difficulties.
He doesn't think that he has got this problem, that problem.
He doesn' think at all.
He thinks how will the problems of the world be solved?
Then this person got energy.
And that too, God's energy.
As soon as he started thinking this
his questions also started getting solved.
Because of his vastness, those questions also get solved on their own.
I have seen many people who say
'See Mother, it so happened once'
there was a great question
that in such and such a country , a war broke out.
So, we thought to pray, to meditate, or do something and make a desire.
Next day, it was published in the newspaper that peace had settled in.
Nobody will believe, if it is said that someone can do such a thing.
But, why doesn't a man believe?
Because, a man knows his vastness, his greatness.
Till he doesn't recognize himself
how can he recognize his greatness?
How will he know what is his worth?
What is his dignity and what are his powers?
You can get all this only after knowing your own self.
You know about Kundalini?
You also know about the chakras.
And what happens with the opening of chakras, it is their manifestation.
If we say only this
that this health problem improves, that health problem improves
then people will say have you opened a hospital?
Only to improve one's health is not the work of Sahajyoga now.
That time is over now.
Father's grand father's, grand father's, father's own son
Mother, please set him right.
Such and such a person is drinking
such and such a person is doing this, such and such a person is doing that.
Earlier it used to be like that only. Now it is not so.
Now I am surprised, how much broad minded  man is becoming in this  country.
You have to achieve this broad mindedness.
Now you yourself think, at one time in this country, such people were there
such contemplating people, such visionaries
who concerned themselves about world issues.
They do not run after small, petty issues.
Now you must listen to and see their explanations visit them.
In this country itself, we had such great people
who always thought of great things, did great things.
I do not know in which pit we have got trapped?
that we think of such greatness, not possible at all.
How can we be like that?  Why not?
There were people who at one time  could fight the British.
They sacrificed so much for the country.
Can’t they return back to our country?
In which other country will they go?
Those who loved this country so much
can’t they take birth in this country again?
Those who have sacrificed so much for the country
faced so many problems for the country.
Today they will again get awakened through Sahaja Yoga.
I am fully hopeful that those who will love their country
and reinstate order in the country
bring peace, serenity and everything to this country.
After that when this country will get corrected
then more countries will follow suit.
We have already world issues before us.
But we have to see which country will lead?
Which country will be the flag bearer?
Which country's people say that we will show it by making such an ideal country
Where people will be at a high spiritual level?
In Sahaja Yoga, ‘spiritual’ does not mean
deserting the wife and children and run to the jungles. Not at all.
We should introspect and achieve that higher state
the special state which is made for us and which we can achieve.
There is no difficulty.
Nothing is to be sacrificed but of stupidity and foolishness
your narrow mindedness, which makes you have selfish temperament
you should run away from that.
You should understand that this is the narrow mindedness within me.
After that, you will see that all your doubts will be clear.
You believe in God.
Do you think that going to a temple or gurdwara and paying obeisance will help?
It will not help.
Inside us, the belief
whatever beliefs you have till now
that dharma should be a part and parcel of our inner self
the greatness of this religion is such
that it has made a large number of great people to come to this country.
I say that, in no other country there have been so many great people.
The saints that have been in this country, have been no where.
No where have been so many saints as we had in this country.
That means that our country can make a great contribution to the world.
Recently I had gone to China.
I was very surprised
that although Chinese may publicly have anti-India feelings
they say they have a lot of expectations from India, have lots of hopes.
I asked, "what expectations?".
They said, ‘We know there is a minefield of spirituality.
But till now nobody has told us about it’.
In our Sahaj Yoga stall
there were long queues where people came to ask 'what Sahaja Yoga was?'
It was published in newspapers.
Americans were wondering what was there in it?
Why were so many people gathering there?
Then, you are seeing so many people sitting in front of you
from foreign countries too
those, who after getting Sahajyoga are Singing the saga of your India's pride.
you should also take a look at this.
In Sahaja Yoga, you will have no problem in getting your realisation because you are ready.
Like a seed, you put it into the mother earth, it will flourish
because seed also has energy and mother too has energy.
But later to grow into a tree it takes time. That  is necessary.
Because your vasteness will be visible, when you will become just like a tree.
For that, you have to get into meditation.
You cannot do Sahaja Yoga with shallowness.
You will enjoy it only when you dive in spirituality.
You get deep into it and then only you will enjoy Sahaja Yoga.
And then you will know what you are and how vast you are.
In spite of everything, such peace and solution will reside inside
that through this power alone, with your attention you can set things right.
I can tell you that your attention will become so beautiful
that wherever it goes, you can fix many things.
So, if you have to bring yourself out of selfish mode
if you want to come to a more higher state, you have to meditate without fail.
Only through meditation, everything works out.
Now, it is so, that people told me
that men do a lot of meditation and women do less.
It is surprising because I am a woman.
I also have a home, I have children, everything is there.
Whilst managing everything, through meditation
I have worked out a system, where thousands can be given realisation.
So, I humbly ask that if ladies meditate, children will also meditate.
A woman is the concentration of energy.
Where ladies will not meditate, there children also will not meditate.
Meditation is necessary to manage children.
The husband does it anyway because he runs the home, and the lady protects.
So, if the husband meditates
the lady also meditates, children should also meditate.
The most important thing about Sahaja Yoga is that it is collective.
That ‘I do pooja at home Mother, still I fell sick’.
Not alone. When you come into the collective
when you believe in Sahaja Yoga collectivity
then it is the present-day Sahaja Yoga.
Those days are gone when one individual somewhere used to get realisation.
Thousands, lacs and crores of people have to get their realisation.
So, we have to become collective
and the power of collective is tremendous.
I am happy that Delhi has taken so well to Sahaja Yoga and understood it.
People are so sensitive in Delhi.
It is very surprising that in Maharashtra
where so many sages and saints have not so much wisdom as you have.
I am so surprised to see that.
They think that they know everything. They have understood everything.
There were nine ‘Naths’ (great saints from the Nath ideology) there but in vain.
There were so many sages and saints there but in vain.
The way you have explained and developed
to spread this, you have to do individual meditation
and participate in collective meditation.
I agree that we have a shortage of space
and we have to do something about it.
Slowly and slowly everything will fall in place.
But wherever you become collective
then you will not talk about anything else.
You will only talk about Sahaja Yoga.
This is only the beginning and after this
we will have our programmes everywhere.
Those who can come, please do come!